management of advanced endometrial
adenocarcinoma with medroxyprogesterone
acetate
a basis for progestin therapy for patients
with advanced endometrial adenocarcinoma
is presented.  the criteria for selection of
patients for hormone therapy and the sched-
ule of administration of medroxyprogester-
one (provera) is discussed.  evaluation of
patients for objective changes only, i.e., by
visual, palpable, histologic, or roentgeno-
logic means, revealed complete or partial
remission with significant palliation in 8 of
20 patients (40 per cent).  response to me-
droxyprogesterone therapy is apparently re-
lated to degree of differentiation of the pri-
mary neoplasm, the well-differentiated le-
sions being more responsive.  documentation
of tumor effect by serial biopsies during
treatment provides an index to the histologic
changes this progestin produces in suscep-
tible cases.  the effects of therapy upon
serial urinary hormone excretion rates is
documented in several patients.
on the basis of our experience, the treat-
ment of patients with advanced endometrial
adenocarcinoma with the potent progestin
medroxyprogesterone seems justified.
