the diagnosis of hydrocephalus
the early diagnosis of hydrocephalus
is imperative if definitive steps for
its correction are to be effective.
transillumination is a fairly accurate
procedure that may offer the earliest
means of determining whether or not
the infant's head is enlarging.
however, serial head measurements
constitute the easiest and most
accurate method for early detection
of hydrocephalus.  charts of normal
head size of full-term and premature
infants are available to aid the
physician in evaluating any deviation
from normal.  once the condition has
been detected, it is up to the
neurosurgeon to determine the
treatment plan.  the operative procedure
most widely used for shunting the
excessive cerebrospinal fluid is
insertion of a spitz-holter valve.
early detection and improved treatment
methods will help prevent irreversible
intellectual damage likely to develop
if hydrocephalus continues unchecked.
